Caption: um thanks for tuning in everyone um i'm
Caption: going to give a talk called the billion
Caption: event challenge
Caption: i'm chris baloo i work at vgw in perth
Caption: i'm a score lead on the payments team so
Caption: in the payments team we deal with events
Caption: on a day-to-day basis because we use
Caption: event sourcing
Caption: so um it's kind of a personal interest
Caption: of mine to see how fast we can process
Caption: a large volume of events um we're not
Caption: quite a billion events yet but we're
Caption: rapidly getting there so this is really
Caption: interesting topic to me
Caption: first i just like say thanks to our
Caption: sponsors they've made this event
Caption: affordable for everyone so thank you
Caption: very much
Caption: for that
Caption: so the structure of this talk i'm going
Caption: to give a short background into events
Caption: um and why actually we need them and why
Caption: we want to process them so quickly
Caption: and then i'm going to spend the rest of
Caption: the talk going on a journey of
Caption: optimization
Caption: so trying to tweak some
Caption: technical
Caption: things to make
Caption: my processing system as fast as possible
Caption: so the background
Caption: is that often when i hear and see things
Caption: about event processing systems and
Caption: architectures their
Caption: distributor systems in the cloud um
Caption: often using many sort of commodity
Caption: machines or ec2 instances or
Caption: azure vms
Caption: they're kind of connected together with
Caption: cues
Caption: and then have object storage um
Caption: with all the um or the data stored in
Caption: them
Caption: um or using some of the paradigms
Caption: paradigms like mapreduce
Caption: um i'm kind of interested to see what
Caption: you can do on one machine i don't think
Caption: that's covered as much
Caption: i think we tend to over provision the
Caption: infrastructure that we have for good
Caption: reason because we don't want to run out
Caption: of resources in a a production situation
Caption: but um
Caption: we're kind of not utilizing what we're
Caption: paying for in the cloud so i'm kind of
Caption: interested what you can get on a single
Caption: machine
Caption: and because my team has
Caption: an event processing system in production
Caption: and we are our library of events is
Caption: growing quite rapidly i want my team to
Caption: be able to understand a little bit more
Caption: about the sort of optimization on a
Caption: single machine
Caption: so i do want to give a bit of a
Caption: background on on events
Caption: so i've got an example here of you can
Caption: imagine a domain object that represents
Caption: a hotel booking
Caption: so the
Caption: the state changes that happen to the
Caption: hotel booking um happening over a period
Caption: of time um and so there's some data
Caption: associated with each of those um things
Caption: that are going on and you can store
Caption: those on objects at the time and they're
Caption: called events so there could be an event
Caption: for when the hotel booking is created
Caption: another event when the occupant is added
Caption: to that booking
Caption: and then maybe the schedule's updated
Caption: and then paid so there there a full
Caption: record of what's happened to that domain
Caption: object over time it tells the whole
Caption: history tends to be ordered by time
Caption: and
Caption: they're quite useful um both storing
Caption: data but you can use them to communicate
Caption: as well so if you have components in
Caption: your system
Caption: that need to react to things that are
Caption: happening in time you can pass events
Caption: around
Caption: and that's often called an event-driven
Caption: architecture
Caption: we at vgw and in the payments team
Caption: actually use the events as the single
Caption: primary source of truth so there is no
Caption: other source of truth that is our main
Caption: source of truth this is the source of
Caption: truth um and any other views on our data
Caption: are derived from these events
Caption: so
Caption: why why event sourcing and why events
Caption: it's really nice with events that when
Caption: something happens you're recording what
Caption: happened at the time and you're not
Caption: changing it you're keeping that record
Caption: forever so it's really good for things
Caption: like auditing if you've got regulatory
Caption: needs
Caption: or if you want to go back to look at the
Caption: history of something
Caption: it's it's really nice to have that
Caption: history
Caption: um
Caption: if you're not stirring things um the
Caption: history of things it's it's not really
Caption: possible to know
Caption: what the state of something was
Caption: back in time whereas with events because
Caption: you've got the whole history of time you
Caption: can kind of time travel back and pretend
Caption: you hadn't seen a number of recent
Caption: events
Caption: in order to see what the state was
Caption: further back in time
Caption: it's really nice as well
Caption: what i said earlier about being able to
Caption: derive views on your events so i really
Caption: like the idea of you're storing all the
Caption: data as it's happening
Caption: making sure you're storing everything
Caption: that's relevant and then at any point
Caption: down the line even in 10 years you can
Caption: you can transform that representation to
Caption: something else more useful
Caption: for all kinds of different purposes
Caption: optimized for the read patterns that are
Caption: going to be used to view that data
Caption: time is the primary dimension for events
Caption: which is quite nice because that kind of
Caption: acts as a queue if you want to process
Caption: them so if you've got a number of events
Caption: recorded in time for a domain object and
Caption: you want to build up some representation
Caption: of that domain object you can
Caption: look at the events one by one in time
Caption: building up building up state
Caption: that state can be overwritten by by
Caption: future events but then you're overriding
Caption: it and you're accumulating um the state
Caption: up to now
Caption: um
Caption: some examples of remodels so with that
Caption: hotel booking example um you can imagine
Caption: you've got say a thousand bookings for a
Caption: hotel um and there might be a need to
Caption: show um in an online portal
Caption: um the the customer their bookings so
Caption: you might have some kind of process
Caption: which is transforming events from a
Caption: customer into a list of bookings for
Caption: that customer and that's presented in
Caption: the portal for that customer so that's a
Caption: read model over those events
Caption: that you could also have for the
Caption: housekeeping staff of the hotel a daily
Caption: schedule that's being computed from
Caption: these events
Caption: and then maybe less frequently an
Caption: accounting report that's also best based
Caption: off the same data
Caption: and then maybe some 10 years down the
Caption: line you have some completely different
Caption: need for some remodel or representation
Caption: but because you've got all those events
Caption: you've got the flexibility to come up
Caption: with that so each of these remodels are
Caption: taking a subset of the information off
Caption: these events
Caption: but it's but they're all basically
Caption: targeting this same
Caption: source of truth
Caption: the the system that's actually creating
Caption: these remodels is often called a
Caption: populator
Caption: and it might look like this in a kind of
Caption: simple view
Caption: you've got events and then there's a
Caption: populator that's reading those events
Caption: it's doing some transformation of them
Caption: into a remodel and then saving them and
Caption: it's basically doing that in a real-time
Caption: situation we'll be doing that over and
Caption: over again in an incremental fashion
Caption: so i quite like this and we have lots of
Caption: these at work they're quite easy to
Caption: understand because they often
Caption: are doing a very small piece of piece of
Caption: work inside them
Caption: quite nice and easy to maintain even
Caption: though we've got many of these
Caption: i don't really feel like we're setting
Caption: out a lot of complexity with each of
Caption: these because they're kind of small
Caption: simple units
Caption: um the
Caption: the the ones we have at work and and the
Caption: kind of structures illustrated here is
Caption: is sequential it's dealing with things
Caption: one at a time which is nice for things
Caption: to be easy to understand
Caption: but it's kind of self-throttling itself
Caption: it's blocking its own operation by by um
Caption: by waiting to produce future remodels
Caption: until the current one's been produced so
Caption: it isn't the fastest i'm well aware
Caption: there's probably a way faster way to do
Caption: this
Caption: and that's kind of what i'm interested
Caption: in now
Caption: in particular
Caption: this is good for a real-time situation
Caption: if you've got events coming in in a real
Caption: time
Caption: at a real-time velocity um you need a
Caption: certain certain amount of um processing
Caption: but
Caption: there's the other situation where
Caption: let's say you've got your event store
Caption: and you've got some populators that are
Caption: that are say caught up in processing
Caption: data in real time
Caption: and then you come up with a new remodel
Caption: you decide you have a new business need
Caption: you have to start that from zero you
Caption: have to start that from the
Caption: from from the earliest part of the queue
Caption: because it's going to generate remodels
Caption: for all of those events so you have to
Caption: start it off and it will take time it's
Caption: sequential it will take time to catch up
Caption: and at work
Caption: we've we've got a we haven't got a
Caption: billion events yet but we're getting
Caption: there and it takes a few hours to catch
Caption: up with our solutions so
Caption: it does kind of slow us down when we're
Caption: doing releases we we like to think of
Caption: ourselves as a high performing team we
Caption: do sort of 5 10 15 releases a day
Caption: amongst the 10 engineers
Caption: and so we really don't have much scope
Caption: for waiting a few hours when we're doing
Caption: a release
Caption: but that does happen and we do a new
Caption: remodel instead of every week so it'd be
Caption: really nice if we could speed that up
Caption: and get that a lot lower than a few
Caption: hours
Caption: this is the key this is the key reason
Caption: i'm doing this challenge
Caption: all right so um given some background of
Caption: events i want to go on to the challenge
Caption: so as i said before i want to be able to
Caption: process a billion events as fast as
Caption: possible um on a single machine
Caption: the the challenge is i'm going to
Caption: primarily measure the time taken to
Caption: load all those events from where they're
Caption: stored transform them into remodels in
Caption: this case i'm going to have one remodel
Caption: for every 10 events 10 events you could
Caption: think of representing one hotel booking
Caption: for example and so producing one remodel
Caption: and then saving those 100 million
Caption: remodel somewhere and so that's the
Caption: that's the the start and end point that
Caption: i'm timing here and i'm going to
Caption: optimize throughout this challenge
Caption: um i'm not really focusing on
Caption: architecting this to be a real-time
Caption: solution in production that's sort of
Caption: highly available and reliable i'm really
Caption: caring about how fast i can get a
Caption: catch-up situation
Caption: because i you could imagine creating a
Caption: system as part of this challenge that is
Caption: used as a once-off when a new remodel
Caption: populator is deployed that has the the
Caption: job of doing the catch up and then some
Caption: other system that takes over for the
Caption: real time potentially
Caption: some things i'm going to experiment with
Caption: um
Caption: the language that i'm implementing this
Caption: this system in
Caption: the run time
Caption: uh the the format
Caption: both serialization and compression that
Caption: i'm going to represent these events in
Caption: and then the remodels that i produce
Caption: and then really most of it's going to be
Caption: how i parallelize this work
Caption: so my first solution i started with
Caption: something and which which you use at
Caption: work every day which is node.js so
Caption: typescript um i i'm well aware it's
Caption: probably not the fastest thing to use
Caption: but that's okay because we use it
Caption: because
Caption: lots of people know the language it's
Caption: very familiar it's quite easy to get
Caption: started um so it's it's kind of the
Caption: thing we reach for first
Caption: so i i kind of chose a node.js
Caption: application
Caption: i generated a billion sort of fictitious
Caption: events and save them into adjacent file
Caption: because that's also kind of a nice
Caption: well understood um and used format
Caption: and then
Caption: yeah i wrote some code to process them
Caption: so i had one one huge json file of
Caption: events and then i was creating one use
Caption: json file of remodels
Caption: except i wasn't because a hunt one
Caption: billion events is a hundred gigabytes of
Caption: json which is a lot and it turns out no
Caption: js that's too much for node.js to deal
Caption: with in one go it has a single file
Caption: limit when it when you're reading a file
Caption: of two gigabytes
Caption: and
Caption: once you load that file which is which
Caption: will be a string and then parsing that
Caption: into json um it has a limit of 100 of
Caption: one gigabyte each time
Caption: so
Caption: next thing i did was to split that into
Caption: a number of files um in this case a
Caption: thousand so each one
Caption: was about 100 megabyte so um a thousand
Caption: files in
Caption: a thousand files out
Caption: when i was doing that i had to kind of
Caption: think very carefully about this because
Caption: i want to be able to parallelize these
Caption: events
Caption: and even because i'm splitting them up
Caption: and doing them in parallel i need to
Caption: think about the
Caption: the files that these events are going to
Caption: end up in so if you think of an event
Caption: store that's maybe got three bookings in
Caption: it booking a b and c um they they're
Caption: sort of naturally ordered by time in an
Caption: event store usually um so in one file
Caption: they're kind of all in that one file
Caption: even though they're interspersed with
Caption: each other over time
Caption: but if i'm splitting these this file up
Caption: i it's going to be really hard to create
Caption: a remodel for say booking a if half of
Caption: the events for booking a are in one file
Caption: and half are in another
Caption: so i kind of i guess cheated maybe and
Caption: did a pre-step where i
Caption: group all of the events for each booking
Caption: into into one file so um i know if i
Caption: pick up one file the bookings that i see
Caption: in there are going to be entirely
Caption: encapsulated so that's a step that i did
Caption: which should make parallelizing easier
Caption: as well
Caption: so this was the timing of my first
Caption: solution so
Caption: um it was actually doing a thousand
Caption: iterations of what you're seeing here so
Caption: reading events deserializing them
Caption: transforming them into remodels and then
Caption: serializing and writing the result but
Caption: i've kind of aggregated the timing here
Caption: so you can see the breakdown of where it
Caption: spent most of the timing and quite
Caption: clearly you can see
Caption: of the 26 minutes in total 19 minutes of
Caption: that was deserializing so reading wasn't
Caption: actually a lot i was expecting reading
Caption: and writing sort of interacting with
Caption: this to take a lot of time relatively
Caption: speaking but um it turns out that json
Caption: is a fairly verbose
Caption: way to encode data um and it's fairly
Caption: sort of in cpu intensive to actually
Caption: interpret that and it looks like the the
Caption: node.js
Caption: implementation of that um
Caption: i i don't really have a barometer yet as
Caption: to whether it's fast or not but it
Caption: certainly looks like it's taking a lot
Caption: of time
Caption: so that's that's the first solution so
Caption: at least i have kind of a yardstick for
Caption: what um
Caption: what uh maybe a slow performance will
Caption: look like because i think all the other
Caption: ideas i'm going to try only going to
Caption: make it faster so we're starting from a
Caption: position of 26 minutes
Caption: these are the ideas i have for
Caption: optimizing so
Caption: i've started with jason node.js i want
Caption: to try something that's not node.js
Caption: i also want to try something that's not
Caption: json i think that's probably not the
Caption: most compact way to represent this data
Caption: maybe you want to try some compression
Caption: algorithms and also want to try and make
Caption: it parallelized so not sequential
Caption: so let's focus on not node.js so what
Caption: other choices do i have obviously i have
Caption: innumerable choices but i've kind of
Caption: picked four that i've heard on the great
Caption: find that are fast so
Caption: java c plus plus go
Caption: and russ so for me i happen to have
Caption: spent more time in rust than any of the
Caption: others it's something that i language
Caption: that i find particularly interesting so
Caption: i'm kind of going to arbitrarily pick
Caption: this as the one i'm going to try to be
Caption: faster i have heard it's a modern
Caption: language and it should be fast so it
Caption: should actually be quite hopeful
Caption: it is a statically typed language which
Caption: is an improvement hopefully on node.js
Caption: or javascript which is a dynamically
Caption: typed language so the compiler is able
Caption: to know a lot more about what's going on
Caption: with the data that it's representing so
Caption: it can make a lot more optimizations
Caption: it isn't the only statically typed
Caption: language in this list but that should be
Caption: an advantage um compared to javascript
Caption: it is natively compiled so it's compiled
Caption: ahead of time so a lot of optimizations
Caption: can be made at the compilation step as
Caption: opposed to at runtime um so that that's
Caption: kind of nice there's no pausing where
Caption: it's doing just in just in time
Caption: compilation it's all done ahead of time
Caption: and one of the really unique things
Caption: about rust is its memory model so it
Caption: uses a model called the ownership model
Caption: where each variable you have in your
Caption: code
Caption: or each piece of data you have has a
Caption: very clear owner
Caption: and it can be one of the reasons rust is
Caption: quite difficult to learn
Caption: because you have to be really clear to
Caption: the compiler who owns a piece of data
Caption: and when you're sort of passing it
Caption: around between functions or between
Caption: threads
Caption: the compiler really wants you to be
Caption: clear about who's going to be owning
Caption: that data
Caption: so it can make it difficult to learn but
Caption: the end result is that the compiler has
Caption: a lot more information about how that
Caption: data can change so it's able to make
Caption: even more optimizations which is
Caption: which is really
Caption: i think one of the reasons why this
Caption: should be faster
Caption: so this is my implementation in russ
Caption: compared to node.js so total time more
Caption: than twice as fast so nine minutes nine
Caption: and a half minutes overall
Caption: um
Caption: looks like the bulk of that time is is
Caption: much faster deserialization process so
Caption: the the reading and writing was similar
Caption: you'd expect it's it's json it's using
Caption: the same disk
Caption: um
Caption: the uh transforming was also faster i i
Caption: guess that you might expect that too
Caption: um so that's that's a good that's a good
Caption: move um
Caption: so rust is i think what i'm going to
Caption: stick with for the rest of this i don't
Caption: really want to jump around languages at
Caption: this point i think there are other
Caption: optimizations to make that are probably
Caption: easier
Caption: um so let's try and not represent here
Caption: as jason
Caption: and again i have innumerable choices
Caption: here and i've picked three that i've
Caption: heard are fast based upon benchmarks
Caption: from the internet
Caption: they're all binary representation as
Caption: opposed to the string json
Caption: representation which i think will make
Caption: it more compact
Caption: bin code and
Caption: archive i've been calling it rkyv for a
Caption: year my friend recently told me it's
Caption: probably pronounced archive and i think
Caption: they're probably right
Caption: they're both rust
Caption: they appear to be only rust-based
Caption: serialization formats message pack is a
Caption: bit more commonplace so i'm going to try
Caption: those three
Caption: um and i'm measuring them both upon the
Caption: size the the the
Caption: they're represented as but also the time
Caption: it takes
Caption: um to do the steps in the process that
Caption: are relevant to the serialization format
Caption: so the reading you might imagine would
Caption: be would be faster or slower based upon
Caption: the size of the
Caption: of the file
Caption: that it's reading
Caption: same with the writing
Caption: and then deserializing materializing you
Caption: expect that to change
Caption: in in time as well so
Caption: the the size of all of the alternative
Caption: choices were a lot smaller than jason um
Caption: but the smaller ones did actually appear
Caption: to um be slower compared to each other
Caption: but not compared to jason so although
Caption: bing code was sort of a quarter of the
Caption: size
Caption: on disk um it was it was a lot faster
Caption: than json
Caption: in terms of its deserialization and
Caption: serializing but it wasn't quite as fast
Caption: as archive and message pack which
Caption: managed to
Caption: be faster although not represent the
Caption: data quite as compactly so i think
Caption: because i'm optimizing for ultimate
Caption: end-to-end time here i should really
Caption: choose the one that gives me the the
Caption: shortest time and that's archive so
Caption: that's the one i'm going to go through
Caption: so compression what have i got choices
Caption: there so again i've chosen a small set
Caption: um deflate which is commonly used in zip
Caption: files and gzip
Caption: snappy which is a more modern
Caption: compression algorithm
Caption: and then there's lz4 as well these are
Caption: again ones that i just picked that in
Caption: theory should be fairly um fairly fast
Caption: but rather than thinking in theory again
Caption: let's measure so
Caption: compared to
Caption: archive with no compression um we've got
Caption: the other ones here so
Caption: quite impressively deflate got down to
Caption: six gigabytes um which is which is
Caption: pretty impressive um snappy and l4 again
Caption: quite a lot smaller than um without any
Caption: compression but they introduced a lot of
Caption: decompression and compression time
Caption: especially deflate deflate just needed a
Caption: long time to compress
Caption: i'm not sure why i mean it's probably
Caption: one of the older compression algorithms
Caption: but it is
Caption: still very effective at compressing so
Caption: it just takes a lot of time to do it
Caption: but actually none of them if you measure
Caption: the end to end time the the compression
Caption: that they made in terms of making the
Caption: file smaller wasn't able to make up for
Caption: the fact that they added more extra time
Caption: in the absolute
Caption: processing of this so
Caption: i'm actually just not going to use any
Caption: compression the numbers are telling me
Caption: that maybe i shouldn't so i'm just going
Caption: to stick with archive with no
Caption: compression
Caption: and this is the one that's really
Caption: interesting to me parallelizing our
Caption: resources so what actually can be
Caption: parallelized
Caption: i think that the most obvious one is cpu
Caption: work because cpus tend to have lots of
Caption: cores on them so you can have many
Caption: threads in your program that are making
Caption: use of um cpu cores
Caption: um and i think the main parts of the the
Caption: uh the program that are gonna benefit
Caption: from that uh are the deserialization
Caption: and then the transformation into
Caption: remodels and then serialization at the
Caption: end
Caption: i wonder whether parallelizing disk
Caption: access is also going to help
Caption: i actually have no idea maybe reading
Caption: and writing two files is faster than one
Caption: if you do it in parallel i'm not sure so
Caption: that's something
Caption: that i'm definitely going to measure
Caption: so i'm going to start off i am going to
Caption: parallelize but i'm just going to start
Caption: with three threads so i'm going to have
Caption: one thread that's doing all the reading
Caption: it's just going to be reading the files
Caption: as fast as possible it's going to put
Caption: them the files on a queue
Caption: and then there's going to be a
Caption: processing thread which is going to be
Caption: receiving those processing them as fast
Caption: as possible
Caption: and then another thread for writing the
Caption: results as fast as possible so i've
Caption: tried to keep that that simple to start
Caption: with i'm going to do this on my machine
Caption: so my machine at home which is a intel
Caption: core i9 so it's got 10 cores um 20 if
Caption: you include hyper threading all those
Caption: sort of strictly it's only 10
Caption: but because of that sort of 10 20 core
Caption: um
Caption: hybrid there i'm interested to know how
Caption: many threads is appropriate to sort of
Caption: make use of those cores whether you
Caption: should only really use 10 should you use
Caption: 20 or should you use somewhere in
Caption: between
Caption: then i've got 32 gig ram which i think
Caption: should be enough um and then the disk
Caption: i'm using is a relatively modern ssd and
Caption: i'm interested to know whether there's
Caption: any parallelization i can have around
Caption: the access to that
Caption: so what i've got here is a visualization
Caption: i've done some measurements while the
Caption: program was running i've saved the
Caption: results and i've made a visualization
Caption: here which represents what each thread
Caption: is doing so i've got three threads i've
Caption: got my read thread
Caption: it's doing a bunch of work for about
Caption: half the time
Caption: so i'm not sure if you can really see
Caption: but it should be clearer in future
Caption: visualizations but in this one
Caption: those slivers there are individual
Caption: individual partitions
Caption: getting processed
Caption: then you've got the processing thread
Caption: which is solid color the whole whole way
Caption: which essentially means it's busy the
Caption: whole time
Caption: and then the right thread which is a
Caption: little bit spotty so i don't think
Caption: that's fully busy the whole time
Caption: so the read thread's got this big gap
Caption: here which is telling me that for half
Caption: the time it is busy reading and then
Caption: once it's finished reading it's got no
Caption: more work to do it's done all its job
Caption: and it's got to wait for the processing
Caption: and the writing to happen before it's
Caption: done
Caption: so
Caption: it's 2 minutes 14 seconds which is kind
Caption: of comparable to what i had before when
Caption: i had no
Caption: parallelization so it's not really too
Caption: much sticking out there but i'm thinking
Caption: what i should do is add more processing
Caption: threads because it looks like that's the
Caption: bottleneck so what if i go up to that
Caption: core count a total of ten if i add eight
Caption: processing threads and then keep my one
Caption: reading and one writing thread
Caption: so with the same visualization um this
Caption: is what i'm getting so you can see the
Caption: processing threads here there are a lot
Caption: more patchy so there are there are
Caption: smatterings of color where they are each
Caption: doing work but they're not they're not
Caption: sort of um fully utilized there's
Caption: definitely patches where it's not doing
Caption: anything
Caption: and the total time has dropped quite a
Caption: lot so we're down to 44 seconds so we've
Caption: we've we've taken a huge chunk off just
Caption: by parallelizing some of that processing
Caption: and it looks like the processing is sped
Caption: up enough that the read thread is now
Caption: the bottleneck i think the read thread
Caption: is more solid color
Caption: than the right thread if you look at it
Caption: that way so i think what i'll do
Caption: is i'll add another read through see if
Caption: that actually helps
Caption: so let's go two instead of one
Caption: interestingly the the time did drop a
Caption: little bit so i think that did help um
Caption: the the read threads still look quite
Caption: busy though but the processing threads i
Caption: did drop one processing thread
Caption: um to keep the total at 10 but
Caption: i it does look like they're much more
Caption: better utilized now so i think that was
Caption: good in terms of um feeding those
Caption: processing threads a little better
Caption: so i might actually try and add another
Caption: read thread and see what happens see if
Caption: i can keep getting
Caption: incremental benefits so up to three read
Caption: threads now um interestingly
Caption: the the two of those read threads appear
Caption: to be busy but that third one um isn't
Caption: quite as busy at the end there so i
Caption: wonder if maybe
Caption: it's starting to sort of
Caption: go as fast as it can from that disc and
Caption: that third thread isn't having much
Caption: effect when it's when it's saturated
Caption: the six processing threads do appear to
Caption: be a lot more utilized now they don't
Caption: appear to be entirely the blocking
Caption: factor though because there is a little
Caption: bit of
Caption: under utilization at the end there um so
Caption: the right thread appears to be a lot
Caption: more busy um and we've lost another two
Caption: seconds so we're down to 36 seconds
Caption: which from the original nine minutes is
Caption: going pretty well
Caption: um so i think what i might do is bump up
Caption: the processing threads and see if um see
Caption: if that that sort of solid utilization
Caption: there is actually holding it back in any
Caption: way
Caption: so jump up to 12 so that actually did
Caption: help so we're over the sort of natural
Caption: core count of the cpu now um so i think
Caption: there is some benefit to that hyper
Caption: threading that that beyond that natural
Caption: core count the the hyper threading is
Caption: able to do do some more um and it's it
Caption: appears those those 12 threads i've got
Caption: now doing the processing are not fully
Caption: utilized um the three read threads um
Caption: appear to be the bottleneck again um so
Caption: i think probably i might go and add
Caption: another read thread and see what happens
Caption: um
Caption: didn't do a lot so we might be reaching
Caption: diminishing returns on that
Caption: now it looks like those read threads are
Caption: busy but what that's actually telling us
Caption: with those solid colors is
Caption: the the units of work where it's doing
Caption: reading
Caption: are taking the full amount of time
Caption: that's sort of saturating those threads
Caption: but it doesn't necessarily mean the disc
Caption: uh or it's waiting for um
Caption: sort of uh if the disc is fully utilized
Caption: and feeding all of those threads at the
Caption: most it can there may actually be time
Caption: in that in that sort of coloring that is
Caption: um where the disk is is kind of fully
Caption: saturated and not able to feed those
Caption: threads and they're just waiting the
Caption: threads are waiting for for disk
Caption: um so i wonder if that might be the end
Caption: or should i do another rethread let's
Caption: see what happens
Caption: cool five read threads i think we've
Caption: maxed it out now so we're at 32 seconds
Caption: on my machine
Caption: i don't think adding more processing
Caption: threads will help i don't think any
Caption: other read-through will help a right
Caption: thread will help i think it's maybe
Caption: saturated on that
Caption: so why did adding more read threads help
Caption: performance that seemed to be the one of
Caption: the main things that was helping me here
Caption: one one of the things is i'm using an
Caption: ssd and and the big thing about ssds is
Caption: they've got many flash chips on them so
Caption: different to how um a sort of
Caption: traditional spinning hard drive would
Caption: work they're able to actually do reads
Caption: and writes in parallel because if you've
Caption: got a file on one chip on the on the ssd
Caption: that may be being read but you can get
Caption: another file on a different chip
Caption: um
Caption: as long as the bus between the cpu and
Caption: the disk is able to support that so
Caption: that i think that may be what's
Caption: happening here i'm loading multiple
Caption: files off the disk in parallel and then
Caption: maybe stalling different different chips
Caption: on the flash drive so i'm able to get
Caption: sort of really high performance by
Caption: loading multiple
Caption: um the
Caption: nvme
Caption: interface spec which my ssd card
Caption: supports um some um
Caption: confirmation on a website on the
Caption: internet here is that uh yeah if you're
Caption: able to
Caption: access multiple files in parallel if
Caption: they're running on a distinct core
Caption: you can actually take advantage of that
Caption: and just really writing a parallel with
Caption: nvme
Caption: so i've done some parallelization what
Caption: can i do to improve it i could go out
Caption: and get some faster disks the disk i was
Caption: running it on was relatively modern i
Caption: only bought it a few months ago when my
Caption: previous run ran out of space
Caption: so i'm not sure that's going to be
Caption: something i'm going to be able to do
Caption: very easily and get a huge amount of
Caption: benefit i could get more discs though
Caption: um i could get more calls maybe go buy
Caption: one of the the new cpus that's got more
Caption: cores
Caption: um faster clock speed maybe um on each
Caption: individual core but i i think we've
Caption: maybe uh mostly slowed down in that
Caption: regard so i don't know if that's going
Caption: to be something i'm going to be able to
Caption: do
Caption: so
Caption: i did actually have a previous disc um
Caption: before
Caption: that one uh filled up and i bought my
Caption: new one um i had another ssd so what i'm
Caption: gonna try is plug that one back in
Caption: and try and try and distribute the data
Caption: across both of those and see if i can
Caption: get a speed up so i'm just going to
Caption: start with two
Caption: two threads reading and writing one for
Caption: each disk and then
Caption: say 16 threads processing
Caption: and the same visualization so i did get
Caption: a bit of a speed up there so i dropped
Caption: six seconds
Caption: um and you can see the two read threads
Caption: and you can see they're quite different
Caption: one of them um appears to be busy the
Caption: whole time and the other one appears to
Caption: be busy for only uh or sort of 80 of the
Caption: time and i think that's probably because
Caption: one of them is a lot faster because it's
Caption: a lot newer so um one of them's able to
Caption: read all the files it's responsible for
Caption: pretty quickly
Caption: and the other one's lagging behind there
Caption: so
Caption: that may be a bit of a problem
Caption: i'm not able to sort of get too much
Caption: benefit because one's kind of just
Caption: slower and needs more time
Caption: the processing threads aren't aren't
Caption: that busy and the right thread isn't um
Caption: so
Caption: that's uh i could try more read threads
Caption: because i did get a speed up and when i
Caption: did that on one ssd so let's see what
Caption: happens with that
Caption: and yeah i got a speed up so three
Caption: seconds less time
Caption: again you can see which two threads are
Caption: for the the faster ssd
Caption: and the processing threads right threads
Caption: not not heavily utilized so um i think i
Caption: might try again giving more read threads
Caption: um go up to eight instead of four
Caption: dropped at one second so diminishing
Caption: returns appears to be about four threads
Caption: per ssd
Caption: um
Caption: interestingly the the right threads
Caption: there um are starting to get a bit bit
Caption: busy um so maybe i could bump those
Caption: right threads up and see if i get the
Caption: same same uh boost like i did with the
Caption: read threads uh yeah i didn't really
Caption: maybe i could do that more but it
Caption: appears as though it's not really
Caption: taking too much time there beyond what
Caption: the read threads and processing threads
Caption: are doing so i might be reaching
Caption: diminishing returns with the two disks
Caption: um so that probably is the most i could
Caption: get to 34 seconds on my home machine so
Caption: what do i do i could go out and buy more
Caption: disks that appears to be the magic um
Caption: the the cpu i don't appear to be fully
Caption: utilizing that so i can go to ple and
Caption: get sort of four more drives um or i
Caption: could call up jeff bezos and say hey one
Caption: of your machines can i can i borrow one
Caption: of those um one of those big beefy ones
Caption: and he said yeah i'm gonna be in space i
Caption: don't need these you can you can have
Caption: these um so yeah go for your life
Caption: so i looked up the instances and i found
Caption: this quite beefy one here that's got 96
Caption: vcpus
Caption: quite a lot of ram
Caption: but it has got four quite beefy nvme
Caption: ssds so i'm hoping that that's going to
Caption: be a reason why i might get some faster
Caption: performance on a this
Caption: particular machine
Caption: so i'll start i'll make those four ssds
Caption: again i'll start with one thread reading
Caption: from each
Caption: and maybe just the two threads riding
Caption: and maybe 22 threads processing let's
Caption: see what we get from that
Caption: so that was quite nice got another
Caption: fairly substantial performance bump 11
Caption: seconds down so down to 23 seconds now
Caption: um the four read threads yep appear to
Caption: be um appear to be the bowl neck to
Caption: start off with before
Caption: um
Caption: so that's interesting i am starting to
Caption: see something happen on the left hand
Caption: side of the chart so that is actually
Caption: the serializing step that big orange
Caption: chunk so i'm not entirely sure why but
Caption: it's an interesting observation that at
Caption: the start of the process those threads
Caption: appear to be having having problems sort
Caption: of deserializing
Caption: before they're able to sort of settle
Caption: down so i'm not entirely sure what's
Caption: happening there
Caption: but that's maybe some future
Caption: investigation again when i was on my
Caption: local machine it helped bumping up the
Caption: read thread so i'm going to do that here
Caption: cool that helped so eight read threads
Caption: helped dropped another four seconds so
Caption: 19 seconds still getting some
Caption: improvements here
Caption: the 22 processing threads appear to be a
Caption: good number like fairly well utilized
Caption: but don't appear to be the bottleneck
Caption: so i think again i might bump up the
Caption: read threads and see if i can get four
Caption: per ssd and that had quite a big impact
Caption: and actually made things slower so those
Caption: read threads um are kind of busy um
Caption: processing threads are kind of busy but
Caption: the right threads um they look like now
Caption: they're they're kind of taking time
Caption: beyond the others and they weren't
Caption: before so that that might actually be
Caption: our bottleneck now so i'm going to bump
Caption: up the right threads all right and we're
Caption: back to a situation where um
Caption: everything's taking sort of
Caption: approximately the same amount of time
Caption: and we we've dropped another 9 seconds
Caption: so we're down to 18 seconds
Caption: which is pretty cool so
Caption: um that's that's uh that's that might be
Caption: it that's i think that's all i can do
Caption: with um with the ideas that i had
Caption: so i do really want to get it sub 10
Caption: seconds
Caption: does anyone have any ideas what i should
Caption: try i was maybe try some more
Caption: larger ec2 instances there are ones that
Caption: are expensive the one i used was about
Caption: three dollars an hour but there's one
Caption: that's 32 dollars an hour it's one
Caption: that's 109 an hour
Caption: there's the first one's got more ssds
Caption: which yeah i think that'll help um the
Caption: second one interestingly doesn't have
Caption: any local storage um but it does have
Caption: quite a lot of network associated with
Caption: it i think this one's got four times 100
Caption: gigabit network so maybe that's when i
Caption: could start using
Caption: some of the storage
Caption: services in aws like s3 or ebs because i
Caption: understand that you can actually get
Caption: quite a lot of throughput out of those
Caption: when you have
Caption: them at scale so that might be an
Caption: interesting thing to try and then i
Caption: didn't really say that there were any
Caption: rules about having to have discs
Caption: so i could just stick all the events in
Caption: memory in a ram disk and process those i
Caption: imagine that would be a fairly
Caption: a fairly good thing to do for
Caption: performance
Caption: and then the other thing i did when i
Caption: parallelized i didn't revisit
Caption: compression i was i was assessing that
Caption: when it was
Caption: sequential so maybe
Caption: that there may be a performance boost if
Caption: i do compression in parallel as well
Caption: so what did i learn i basically learned
Caption: what fast looks like i think i mean it
Caption: was it's taking hours in some of our
Caption: systems in production which is which is
Caption: fine for what we need um but by
Caption: running things only on a single machine
Caption: i was able to drop it down to sort of
Caption: nine minutes and then a few minutes and
Caption: all the way down
Caption: to 17 seconds on a single machine or be
Caption: a fairly beefy one in aws
Caption: so the main thing that i did was had a
Caption: more compact format for representing the
Caption: data i was parallelizing my use of the
Caption: ssds
Caption: and then i was the processing part i was
Caption: parallelizing on the cpu as well
Caption: so
Caption: yep i think that
Caption: um
Caption: the
Caption: the yeah i also learned that one billion
Caption: events is a lot of json so 100 gigabytes
Caption: of json is a lot
Caption: i imagine almost anything apart from xml
Caption: will be more compact than json so it's
Caption: nice that it's machine readable and it's
Caption: very compatible with a lot of things
Caption: but it's probably not something you
Caption: should use if you want a high
Caption: performance system
Caption: compression reduces size but in my case
Caption: it actually added to the total time
Caption: because the time taken to decompress and
Caption: compress
Caption: was was prohibitive in terms of
Caption: improving the performance so that was a
Caption: kind of unexpected thing i thought
Caption: compression
Caption: would help the radio riding so much that
Caption: overall it would have a
Caption: performance benefit
Caption: yeah i found that utilizing an ssd in
Caption: parallel was possible by using uh
Caption: loading
Caption: files on multiple threads so that was an
Caption: unexpected outcome for me
Caption: um and when i tried my two ssds one of
Caption: them wasn't as fast as the other um and
Caption: i think that really kind of
Caption: um
Caption: yeah that was one of the reasons why i
Caption: didn't get so much um when i had two
Caption: ssds running so much of a an improvement
Caption: um and definitely measure everything
Caption: because i had some surprises in here my
Caption: theory wasn't always what i
Caption: um what i got in practice
Caption: so tying it back to the original
Caption: solution um
Caption: down to 18 seconds is in theory the
Caption: fastest we could get our system um with
Caption: an approach like this um is that faster
Caption: than than the sort of distributed cloud
Caption: solutions you hear about i'm not sure
Caption: because this probably would reach a
Caption: point um where you couldn't scale it too
Caption: much more i was already reaching
Caption: diminishing returns um whereas in a
Caption: cloud distributed solution it could
Caption: scale
Caption: much much more so
Caption: ultimately i think a distributed
Caption: solution could get faster but would the
Caption: complexity be worth it this app was kind
Caption: of simple i didn't really need much
Caption: infrastructure even when i put it in the
Caption: cloud
Caption: but on the other hand i did kind of do
Caption: that pre-processing step
Caption: which even though i was running this as
Caption: a kind of one once off batch job made
Caption: this a bit more complex
Caption: um and then if i wanted to make this a
Caption: real-time system that would again be
Caption: more complexity so i'm not sure if it is
Caption: more complex or not um i guess it
Caption: depends what you're what you're
Caption: optimizing for and what your situation
Caption: is
Caption: so thank you for listening
Caption: i'll take any questions and interested
Caption: in any other ideas or feedback
Caption: thank you